+++
date = 2019-10-04T11:45:00 # Schedule page publish date.

title = "Subgroup analysis in regression using mixture of finite mixture models"
time_start = 2019-10-04T11:45:00
time_end = 2019-10-04T12:15:00
abstract = "Heterogeneity occurs in many regression problems, where members from different latent subgroups respond differently to the covariates of interest (e.g., treatments) even after adjusting for other covariates. To identify such subgroups, our work adopts a Bayesian model based on a mixture of finite mixtures (MFM), for which the number of subgroups needs not be specified a priori and is modeled as a random variable. The Bayesian MFM was not commonly used in earlier applications largely due to computational difficulties. Instead, an alternative Bayesian model, the Dirichlet Process Mixture Model (DPMM) has been widely used for clustering although it is a misspecified model for many applications. The popularity of DPMM is partly due to its mathematical properties that enable efficient computing algorithms. We propose a class of conditional MFMs tailored to regression setups and solve the computing problem by extending the results in Miller and Harrison (2017). Using simulated and real data, we show the benefits of our conditional MFM, notably more reasonable clustering results, compared to that of existing frequentist methods, the DPMM, and the original MFM models in various setups."
abstract_short = ""
event = "the 2019 Women in Statistics and Data Science Conference"
event_url = ""
location = "Bellevue, WA"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++



{{% alert note %}}
Click on the **Slides** button above to view the built-in slides feature.

Slides can be added in a few ways:

- **Create** slides using Academic's [*Slides*](https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/managing-content/#create-slides) feature and link using `slides` parameter in the front matter of the talk file
- **Upload** an existing slide deck to `static/` and link using `url_slides` parameter in the front matter of the talk file
- **Embed** your slides (e.g. Google Slides) or presentation video on this page using [shortcodes](https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/writing-markdown-latex/).

Further talk details can easily be added to this page using *Markdown* and $\rm \LaTeX$ math code.

{{% /alert %}}